Welcome back everybody.
So in the last few sections I know we didn't work off of our main application because we were mostly
implementing in different features that couldn't challenge the existing solutions of reactor redux inside
of our main commerce platform by testing out context API and then switching over to graph fuel in Apollo
client.
So it's actually been a while since we've worked on our main application but now that we finished those
tangential sections where we've really deeply explored other alternatives to the reactor redux architecture
that we already currently have it's time we come back and start rounding out our application with the
last 20 percent that gives our application that extra room.
Now these things might not actually be any features at all.
In fact in the upcoming sections we are going to round out your skill set as a web developer so that
you understand that last kind of mysterious part of what it takes to build an application effectively
and have it be performance.
So one of the first things that I want to talk about is actually making our website mobile friendly.
Now currently our Web site is not mobile friendly.
It is a little bit responsive but it's not fully optimized for the mobile viewing experience.
So what we're going to do is actually modify the CFS in our files to show that they are more aligned
with how we would want it to look on a mobile browser.
And I'm gonna show you that by using media queries.
Now before we actually dive into the code of writing our media queries one of the main things we have
to think about is actually how do we make sure that we can view our application inside of a mobile environment.
If you're rolling chrome it's actually extremely easy to do so the Chrome browser allows us to just
open up the dev tools and click this little tablet looking icon inside at the top of that toolbar which
says toggle device toolbar.
If you click this you'll actually see your mobile web view be your main view now where your browser
was before.
You can adjust the size of this and in the top number here you'll see the actual width and height of
your new view.
So this pretty much simulates a mobile view.
So this is the main way that we are going to use it to see what it is that we are actually going to
have as the mobile version of our web application now that we have this we are going to start leveraging
these media queries to modify our code to be more mobile friendly.
So let's go back to our application one of the first things that we need to do is actually change this
final app dot CSX file over to style components.
Now the way that we import of the style sheet is perfectly fine right.
It's just one app dot CSA style sheet that doesn't necessarily have to change when we moved over to
CSX and J.S. but for consistency sake we might as well do it.
And it's really easy in order to implement global styles all we have to do is use this new function
called creates global styles.
So in order for us to do that we're going to make a new folder that will hold the component that represents
our global styles.
So we'll write this new file and we'll call it global.
Dot styles dot J.S. now inside of here we are going to import in from the styled components library.
This thing called create global style.
So with this we can actually create this new concept called Global style which is equal to us using
this Craig global stop and then we pass it r tilde version of our string right because we want string
interpolation and now all we do is we just put all the styles that we had inside of our indexed SPSS
inside of here if we really wanted to we could even do it with our index ISIS as well.
But this is inside of our index Yes and it's not 100 percent necessary right.
Let's just do it with our abducts the USS so once we placed the new stores inside of this global stop
we'll make sure to export this out and all we need to do in order to bring it into our application is
literally load it at the top level of our app.
So what we'll do is we will go back to our app J.S. will remove this import that we had before and in
its place we will import in our global styles.
So let's actually move this header up here and say import global style from our new global styles file
and now it's literally just a component that we can put above the header like so and this will apply
those styles into our application.
So if we go back to our application and we search our view back we'll see that our global style and
our padding is still there.
In fact if we inspect this we see we still have our party and our body still has the painting code that
we had from our global star XI.
So it's really convenient to do it this way because now we are pretty consistent with the way that we're
writing our code.
In fact now we can get rid of this app to see us as far because we don't need it anymore.
And we can start leveraging these media queries so the first thing I want to do is I want to reduce
the padding on this mobile view of our application.
So how do I do that.
Well I keep talking my media queries so I'm going to show you what it actually looks like when we write
them.
You put the media query inside of the CSF selector that you want to modify.
So if we have style components we just make sure to put this media query inside of that style component
as well and the way that a media query looks is it takes the format of this at media and here what we'll
say is scream and and then inside of here we put certain properties that tell it.
At what point do we want this style block to be applied.
Now here you can set things like Min with Max with or just one or the other.
And all this is saying is pretty much I only want you to render the C S S block here.
That will put inside of here.
So wherever here it is we'll say there's some CSF inside of here.
Right.
We only want this to render based on the rules that we write inside of these brackets.
So in my case I'm gonna say max width is eight hundred pixel meaning that any thing below a hundred
and below in terms of the width will get these styles.
Anything above a hundred pixels will not get these things.
So our body styles will be applied but then these media screen max width of eight hundred pixels this
block of CSF that we're about to write is going to be applied as long as the window's width does not
exceed eight hundred pixels so here I want to set the palette to 10 pixels all around instead of what
we had before where our padding was 20 pixels top bottom 40 pixels on the left and right now if we save
when we go back we see that our padding has shrunk.
Now we only have a 10 pixel border padding around the body so that is our immediate query.
Now I'll link a resource for you guys to see other media queries that you can write because there's
so many.
Right.
This is literally just the pixel not that I chose to dictate because I find with iPhones there pixel
count based on the new retinas is a little bit challenging.
So that sometimes the amount of pixels that you think you might be might be a little higher.
I find that most browsers do not have a with smaller than hundred pixels.
And if it's a tablet it's perfectly fine if it responds the same way as we would see for a mobile device
if it was inside of a portrait view.
So I find a hundred pixels to be one that I'm comfortable with now of course you can dictate and set
them to whatever else you want.
Resources that I've linked for you have multiple breakpoints that are also always changing as the technology
for phones gets better screen resolutions get larger.
It's literally just completely dictated by whatever you and your team decide to do.
I personally like this a hundred pixel rule for my max with for a project like this where mobile views
are not big it's the most important thing to me.
But I do want my screen to be responsive and I want my application to be responsive.
And it's really just that simple.
We have this media query for our mobile view of 800 pixels right or below.
And then we just make sure to modify the padding or whatever other properties we want to set differently
or also add now.
Right.
So that our screen responds the right way when it's in this mobile view.
Now I'm going to go around and modify a couple more components in the next lesson but then I do want
you guys to try it yourself and tinker around with it because this is a great chance for you to kind
of see and play around with some of the CSF.
So you can have it look a way that you want in the end it's really just a matter of taste with styling
but I'm gonna show you what I'll do for some of these components that I think we'll end up looking nice
so you can either proceed yourself with trying to convert some of these styles yourself first you can
watch the next video and then do it.
After that it's entirely up to you but this section is purely on making our Web site responsive.
So with that I will see you in the next lesson.